RaspberryPi/README.md, before:

# Raspberry Pi Setup

I own a Pi Zero and a few Pi Zero WH's.


## Install

You first need a good MicroSD card. I use a Samsung Evo+ Class 10 32GB.
https://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B00WR4IJBE/

But TBH you can also use an old slow 8GB memory card that you have lying around,
if all you do with the Pi is treat it like a much beefier microcontroller to do
random gruntwork where performance isn't important as much as the fromfactor
being tiny.

Download the latest image via BitTorrent. Here's the Torrent link for quick
access: https://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspbian_lite_latest.torrent

Follow the official install instructions here:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/linux.md

Extract the image (I shall update my script later to work with compressed
images) via the `etch.pl` command within this repository.

```bash
etch.pl 2019-09-26-raspbian-buster-lite.img /dev/mmcblk0
```

If the file name or the location to write to is incorrect, the script will warn
you and error out.

## Resizing the Root Partition

Raspbian does this automatically upon first boot

## Enabling SSH

Go to the boot partition on the card in your laptop (it's a tiny ~43mb fat32)
and run `touch ssh` to enable SSH access. Otherwise SSH access is disabled due
to security reasons.

For the same security reasons (default username is `pi` and default password is
`raspberry`) I suggest connecting to a trusted network for the very first time
to change the password so that a nefarious machine doesn't infect the Pi before
you even begin to use it. Or better, just launch it while it's connected to a
HDMI display, keyboard and mouse.

## Setting up Ethernet

You don't need to. This comes pre-configured!

## Setting up WiFi

You can create a `wpa_supplicant.conf` in the boot partition like this:

```
country=IN
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1

network={
    ssid="your WiFi SSID"
    psk="<your WiFi password>"
}

```

After booting up it'll be copied over automatically to where it should go -
`/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf`.

## Setting up Static IP Address

Edit `/etc/dhcpcd.conf` and add this to the bottom:

```
interface wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.43.22
static routers=192.168.43.1
static domain_name_servers=1.1.1.1 1.0.0.1
```

You could do something similar for `interface eth0`, if this is a full-sized Pi
that comes with Ethernet.

I've this setup where ALL my routers/hotspots use the same subnet address,
`192.168.43.0`. I then allocate static IP addresses to all my machines so that
whatever network they're on, their IP addresses remain the same. You might note
that this subnet `192.168.43.0` is what's used by an Android phone.

## Pi Zero Gadget Mode

This is _the_ thing that makes a Pi Zero a fun toy. You can make the Pi Zero
emulate a keyboard, mouse, ethernet port, MIDI device, etc.

1. Edit `/boot/config.txt`
    * add a line with `dtoverlay=dwc2` at the very end of the file.
2. Edit `/boot/cmdline.txt`
    * This file is weird; it has no newlines and everything is separated by
      exactly ONE space
    * add `modules-load=dwc2,g_ether` after `rootwait`
3. Your next boot should have your Pi Zero working as an ethernet controller.
4. Plug the Pi Zero into your laptop and wait ~90 seconds.
5. Wait for the Wired Connection (1/2/3) to show up in your network manager tab
6. Go to network-manager's menu
    * hit edit connections
    * edit the new connection
    * switch to ipv4 tab
    * change the method to "shared to other computers"
    * repeat for ipv6, save, and close
7. Disconnect and reconnect this network
8. You can now run `ssh pi@10.42.0.whatever` to access the Pi.
   Scroll down for instructions on how to fetch its IP Address!

## Determine IP Address of Raspberry Pi

This step applies to Raspberry Pi devices connected via USB Gadget Mode, and
also Raspberry Pi devices connected via Ethernet cable directly to your laptop.

Both these have one thing in common - you need to determine their IP Address.

First, run `ip route` to know what network the new interface is on. The native
ethernet port should be `eno1`, a PCI ethernet card would be `ens1`, and you'd
have a long ugly name for the USB ethernet interface that I cannot be bothered
to remember and type here.

You'd see a network that looks like this: `10.42.0.0/24`.

Run nmap on it: `sudo nmap -sP 10.42.0.0/24` and wait for the command to finish
executing.

You'd see a couple of devices on the network now. The one with the ip address
that ends with 1 (like 10.42.0.1) is your host laptop. The "other" one is the
Raspberry Pi.

This IP Address can be random, so you'd need to do this each time you try to
connect to a Pi.

I should _probably_ try automating these steps at some point!

This solution also works if you are running your Pi off a mobile phone hotspot.
Your laptop and phone would need to be on the same hotspot for this to work.
The IP address of your laptop is easy to learn, the IP address of your phone
would be whatever default gateway gets configured in the hotspot, and then the
third entry would be the Raspberry Pi.

Note that due to changes in Android 10 (which you can google), hotspots have
randomized IP addresses and randomized gateway addresses. So you can't get
any of these values to be predictable.

If you want a simpler way out, automate this shit in Python! Pretty sure there
are wrappers around ip link, ip route, and nmap in Python.


## Reference Links for OTG Gadget Mode

* https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=245810
* https://e2e.ti.com/support/processors/f/791/t/612303?Linux-AM5728-USB-OTG-network-works-intermittently


## Using the Pi as a hotspot

TODO: WIP

https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/access-point.md

TODO: I am creating a bunch of scripts to automate some of the actions involved
in turning the Pi into a Hotspot / shared connection tool.

Commit message:

Updated Raspberry Pi Setup docs concerning nmap

RaspberryPi/README.md, after:

# Raspberry Pi Setup

I own a Pi Zero and a few Pi Zero WH's.


## Install

You first need a good MicroSD card. I use a Samsung Evo+ Class 10 32GB.
https://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B00WR4IJBE/

But TBH you can also use an old slow 8GB memory card that you have lying around,
if all you do with the Pi is treat it like a much beefier microcontroller to do
random gruntwork where performance isn't important as much as the fromfactor
being tiny.

Download the latest image via BitTorrent. Here's the Torrent link for quick
access: https://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspbian_lite_latest.torrent

Follow the official install instructions here:
https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/linux.md

Extract the image (I shall update my script later to work with compressed
images) via the `etch.pl` command within this repository.

```bash
etch.pl 2019-09-26-raspbian-buster-lite.img /dev/mmcblk0
```

If the file name or the location to write to is incorrect, the script will warn
you and error out.

## Resizing the Root Partition

Raspbian does this automatically upon first boot

## Enabling SSH

Go to the boot partition on the card in your laptop (it's a tiny ~43mb fat32)
and run `touch ssh` to enable SSH access. Otherwise SSH access is disabled due
to security reasons.

For the same security reasons (default username is `pi` and default password is
`raspberry`) I suggest connecting to a trusted network for the very first time
to change the password so that a nefarious machine doesn't infect the Pi before
you even begin to use it. Or better, just launch it while it's connected to a
HDMI display, keyboard and mouse.

## Setting up Ethernet

You don't need to. This comes pre-configured!

## Setting up WiFi

You can create a `wpa_supplicant.conf` in the boot partition like this:

```
country=IN
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1

network={
    ssid="your WiFi SSID"
    psk="<your WiFi password>"
}

```

After booting up it'll be copied over automatically to where it should go -
`/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf`.

## Setting up Static IP Address

Edit `/etc/dhcpcd.conf` and add this to the bottom:

```
interface wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.43.22
static routers=192.168.43.1
static domain_name_servers=1.1.1.1 1.0.0.1
```

You could do something similar for `interface eth0`, if this is a full-sized Pi
that comes with Ethernet.

I've this setup where ALL my routers/hotspots use the same subnet address,
`192.168.43.0`. I then allocate static IP addresses to all my machines so that
whatever network they're on, their IP addresses remain the same. You might note
that this subnet `192.168.43.0` is what's used by an Android phone.

## Pi Zero Gadget Mode

This is _the_ thing that makes a Pi Zero a fun toy. You can make the Pi Zero
emulate a keyboard, mouse, ethernet port, MIDI device, etc.

1. Edit `/boot/config.txt`
    * add a line with `dtoverlay=dwc2` at the very end of the file.
2. Edit `/boot/cmdline.txt`
    * This file is weird; it has no newlines and everything is separated by
      exactly ONE space
    * add `modules-load=dwc2,g_ether` after `rootwait`
3. Your next boot should have your Pi Zero working as an ethernet controller.
4. Plug the Pi Zero into your laptop and wait ~90 seconds.
5. Wait for the Wired Connection (1/2/3) to show up in your network manager tab
6. Go to network-manager's menu
    * hit edit connections
    * edit the new connection
    * switch to ipv4 tab
    * change the method to "shared to other computers"
    * repeat for ipv6, save, and close
7. Disconnect and reconnect this network
8. You can now run `ssh pi@10.42.0.whatever` to access the Pi.
   Scroll down for instructions on how to fetch its IP Address!

## Determine IP Address of Raspberry Pi

This step applies to Raspberry Pi devices connected via USB Gadget Mode, and
also Raspberry Pi devices connected via Ethernet cable directly to your laptop.

Both these have one thing in common - you need to determine their IP Address.

First, run `ip route` to know what network the new interface is on. The native
ethernet port should be `eno1`, a PCI ethernet card would be `ens1`, and you'd
have a long ugly name for the USB ethernet interface that I cannot be bothered
to remember and type here.

You'd see a network that looks like this: `10.42.0.0/24`.

Run nmap on it: `sudo nmap -sP 10.42.0.0/24` and wait for the command to finish
executing.

You'd see a couple of devices on the network now. The one with the ip address
that ends with 1 (like 10.42.0.1) is your host laptop. The "other" one is the
Raspberry Pi.

Alternatively, you can also just check if port 22 is open in a network. You can
do it via `nmap -p 22 192.168.0.0/24`. This explicitly checks if the port 22 is
open for your device on the network. On a public WiFi network, there shouldn't
be any (hopefully) other than your Pi.

Anyway, IP Address can be random, so you'd need to do this each time you try to
connect to a Pi. NetworkManager, Android hotspots (from Android 10), and public
WiFi networks wouldn't always let you set a static IP for the Pi, so usually
this is the best way to make things work.

Eventually, you could do something funky like writing a server which does
nothing that listens on port 666, and then look for THIS port to uniquely
identify that you are on a Raspberry Pi.

I should _probably_ try automating these steps at some point! Pretty sure there
are wrappers around ip link, ip route, and nmap in Python.

## Reference Links for OTG Gadget Mode

* https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=245810
* https://e2e.ti.com/support/processors/f/791/t/612303?Linux-AM5728-USB-OTG-network-works-intermittently


## Using the Pi as a hotspot

TODO: WIP

https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/access-point.md

TODO: I am creating a bunch of scripts to automate some of the actions involved
in turning the Pi into a Hotspot / shared connection tool.
