Ubuntu/README.md, before:

# Ubuntu Configuration Automation

This repository contains scripts to automate the setup of Ubuntu 21.10 according
to my specific preferences.

I use Ubuntu 21.04 on my VPS boxes, and Ubuntu 21.10 with Ubuntu Studio tools
on my workstations.

## Server Setup

I'm assuming you're on a random cloud provider (or a virtual machine) running
**Ubuntu Server 21.10**.

First, create a non-root user if you are currently root and give this user
administrative privileges. DigitalOcean for example by default makes you login
as root.

```bash
adduser lord
```

Accept all options and set a really strong password for this user. Then do

```bash
usermod -aG sudo lord
su lord
```

You're now operating as the **lord** user!

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/ext/workspace
cd $HOME/ext/workspace
git clone https://github.com/wingedrhino/DistroSetup
cd DistroSetup/setup-helpers/Ubuntu
sudo ./setup.pl server
```

After this, move to the DistroAgnostic directory

```bash
cd ../DistroAgnostic
cat README.md
```

And finish the common post-install tasks there!

## Workstation Setup

I'm assuming you're on a laptop and you installed **Ubuntu 21.10**. I also
assume you have `sudo` privileges because this is the primary user.

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/ext/workspace
cd $HOME/ext/workspace
apt install git -y
git clone https://github.com/wingedrhino/DistroSetup
cd DistroSetup/setup-helpers/Ubuntu
sudo ./setup.pl all
sudo ./install-snaps.sh
```

After this, move to the DistroAgnostic directory.

I've put install-snaps.sh in a different file because you can run snap installs
concurrently with apt installs. Make good use of the parallelism!

```bash
cd ../DistroAgnostic
cat README.md
```

And finish the common post-install tasks there!

## Verifying Ubuntu ISOs

[This article](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VerifyIsoHowto) on Ubuntu
Community Help Wiki explains quickly how to go about verifying an ISO download.
You SHOULD do this, especially for Ubuntu downloads because they don't seem to
be offered via HTTPS connections. Even the BitTorrent files are not served via
HTTPS. I'm summarizing contents from the linked article here for reference.

### Download Keys

```bash
gpg --keyid-format long --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 0x46181433FBB75451 0xD94AA3F0EFE21092
```

### Verify Key Fingerprints

```bash
$ gpg --keyid-format long --list-keys --with-fingerprint 0x46181433FBB75451 0xD94AA3F0EFE21092
pub   dsa1024/46181433FBB75451 2004-12-30 [SC]
      Key fingerprint = C598 6B4F 1257 FFA8 6632  CBA7 4618 1433 FBB7 5451
uid                 Ubuntu CD Image Automatic Signing Key <cdimage@ubuntu.com>

pub   rsa4096/D94AA3F0EFE21092 2012-05-11 [SC]
      Key fingerprint = 8439 38DF 228D 22F7 B374  2BC0 D94A A3F0 EFE2 1092
uid                 Ubuntu CD Image Automatic Signing Key (2012) cdimage@ubuntu.com>
```

### Verify Signature

```bash
gpg --keyid-format long --verify SHA256SUMS.gpg SHA256SUMS
```

## TODO: Replace apt-key

https://www.linuxuprising.com/2021/01/apt-key-is-deprecated-how-to-add.html

Commit message:

Updated Ubuntu Installer for 24.04
* Installer completely refactored
* Software added/removed as applicable
* We only support two modes now - headless and desktop

Ubuntu/README.md, after:

# Ubuntu Configuration Automation

This repository contains scripts to automate the setup of Ubuntu to my own
preferences. I prefer Gnome due to my familiarity with its keyboard shortcuts.

I'd use other Linux distros (Arch or Fedora) for access to bleeding-edge
packages; but the idea behind an automated Ubuntu setup script is to setup a
stable long term release system that I can recommend to others, who might not
necessarily be familiar with Linux.

The script is written in Perl, mostly because I was super inspired by the now
former host of FLOSS Weekly, Randal Schwartz. I'd NEVER use Perl again; but
keeping this script updated lets me continuously brush up on the tiny bit of
Perl I do know.

## Server Setup

First, create a non-root user if you are currently root and give this user
administrative privileges. DigitalOcean for example by default makes you login
as root.

```bash
adduser lord
```

Accept all options and set a really strong password for this user. Then do

```bash
usermod -aG sudo lord
su lord
```

You're now operating as the **lord** user!

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/ext/workspace
cd $HOME/ext/workspace
git clone https://github.com/wingedrhino/DistroSetup
cd DistroSetup/setup-helpers/Ubuntu
sudo ./setup.pl headless
```

After this, move to the DistroAgnostic directory

```bash
cd ../DistroAgnostic
cat README.md
```

And finish the common post-install tasks there!

## Workstation Setup

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/ext/workspace
cd $HOME/ext/workspace
apt install git -y
git clone https://github.com/wingedrhino/DistroSetup
cd DistroSetup/setup-helpers/Ubuntu
sudo ./setup.pl
sudo ./install-snaps.sh
```

After this, move to the DistroAgnostic directory.

I've put install-snaps.sh in a different file because you can run snap installs
concurrently with apt installs. Make good use of the parallelism!

```bash
cd ../DistroAgnostic
cat README.md
```

And finish the common post-install tasks there!

## Third Party Software

There's helpers to install third party software here. This includes copying the
GPG keys to `/etc/apt/keyrings/` and then creating a file in
`/etc/apt/sources.list.d/`.

## Verifying Ubuntu ISOs

[This article](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VerifyIsoHowto) on Ubuntu
Community Help Wiki explains quickly how to go about verifying an ISO download.
You SHOULD do this, especially for Ubuntu downloads because they don't seem to
be offered via HTTPS connections. Even the BitTorrent files are not served via
HTTPS. I'm summarizing contents from the linked article here for reference.

### Download Keys

```bash
gpg --keyid-format long --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 0x46181433FBB75451 0xD94AA3F0EFE21092
```

### Verify Key Fingerprints

```bash
$ gpg --keyid-format long --list-keys --with-fingerprint 0x46181433FBB75451 0xD94AA3F0EFE21092
pub   dsa1024/46181433FBB75451 2004-12-30 [SC]
      Key fingerprint = C598 6B4F 1257 FFA8 6632  CBA7 4618 1433 FBB7 5451
uid                 Ubuntu CD Image Automatic Signing Key <cdimage@ubuntu.com>

pub   rsa4096/D94AA3F0EFE21092 2012-05-11 [SC]
      Key fingerprint = 8439 38DF 228D 22F7 B374  2BC0 D94A A3F0 EFE2 1092
uid                 Ubuntu CD Image Automatic Signing Key (2012) cdimage@ubuntu.com>
```

### Verify Signature

```bash
gpg --keyid-format long --verify SHA256SUMS.gpg SHA256SUMS
```
